Initial commit for CNCF incubating due diligence (#111)
kubevirt/community: proposals/governance/incubation_dd.md

# KubeVirt Incubation Stage Review Proposal

## What is KubeVirt: Refresh

KubeVirt technology addresses the needs of development teams that have adopted or want to adopt Kubernetes but possess existing Virtual Machine-based workloads that cannot be easily containerized. More specifically, the technology provides a unified development platform where developers can build, modify, and deploy applications residing in both Application Containers as well as Virtual Machines in a common, shared environment.

Benefits are broad and significant. Teams with a reliance on existing virtual machine-based workloads are empowered to rapidly containerize applications. With virtualized workloads placed directly in development workflows, teams can decompose them over time while still leveraging remaining virtualized components as is comfortably desired.

## Statement on alignment with the CNCF mission

## Community

### Governance

* [Membership policy](https://github.com/kubevirt/community/blob/master/membership_policy.md)

### SIGs

> * [SIG blah](https://github.com/kubevirt/community/blob/master/sigs.yaml)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [SIG yaml](https://github.com/kubevirt/community/blob/master/sigs.yaml)
```

Author: Ug.  Thanks for catching that.

### Maintainers

> *

Reviewer: Wow, such empty.

Author: Fixed

### Integrations

* [oVirt](https://www.ovirt.org)
* [Gardener](https://gardener.cloud/blog/2020-10/00/)
* [Kubermatic Virtualization](https://www.kubermatic.com/products/kubevirt/)
* [SUSE/Rancher Harvester](https://github.com/rancher/harvester/blob/766abd06561b059c1af623aacc4e505db471ceee/deploy/charts/harvester/README.md)
* [Google Anthos](https://youtu.be/RE0A3kHT3LA?t=126)

### End Users

Project end users are maintained in the [Adopters](https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt/blob/main/ADOPTERS.md) files

Significant users include:
* NVIDIA
* SUSE
* Kubermatic
* H3C
* CoreWeave
* Civo
* CloudFlare
* Ateme
* Cloudbase Solutions

### CNCF Sponsored Security Audit

## Product information

### Feature design proposals
Design proposals to allow community members to gain feedback on their designs from the repo approvers before the community member commits to executing on the design. By going through the design process, developers gain a have a high level of confidence that their designs are viable and will be accepted.

* [design-proposals](https://github.com/kubevirt/community/tree/master/design-proposals)

### Release cadence

> Kubevirt has a establihed and documented release process and cadence

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubevirt has an established and documented release process and cadence
```

Author: Thanks for the catch

KubeVirt technology addresses the needs of development teams that have adopted or want to adopt Kubernetes but possess existing Virtual Machine-based workloads that cannot be easily containerized. More specifically, the technology provides a unified development platform where developers can build, modify, and deploy applications residing in both Application Containers as well as Virtual Machines in a common, shared environment.

Benefits are broad and significant. Teams with a reliance on existing virtual machine-based workloads are empowered to rapidly containerize applications. With virtualized workloads placed directly in development workflows, teams can decompose them over time while still leveraging remaining virtualized components as is comfortably desired.

## Statement on alignment with the CNCF mission:

## Project progress since sandbox

## Metrics

### Mailing list
KubeVirt currently (2021/06/01) has 436 subscribers.  The mailing list typically get 0-5 new threads per day.

### GitHub
* 171 official members in the organization
* About 50 contributors measured by multiple L or greater sized contributions
* 96 watched tags
* 2562 stars
* 615 forks

> ### Slack

Author: A little over 1000 in #Virtualization and almost 400 in #kubevirt-dev.  I'll add a note about this.

Slack channels typically get 0-5 new threads per day.

### Downloads

> ### Integrations

Author: Are you sure we want this?  It could start repetitive.  Thing uses technology provided by KubeVirt to run virtual machines along side containers within kubernetes... five times.

* Kubernetes / minikube
* Red Hat OKD / OpenShift 4.x
* oVirt / Red Hat Virtualization

> 

Author: Rancher and Kubermatic advertise the use of KubeVirt.  

Can you confirm Gardener?  Gardener looks like something else.  I even checked their go vendors directory in GitHub.  To me it doesn't look like they source Kubevirt.

> 

Reviewer 2: KubeVirt is a supported infrastructure provider for Project Gardner
https://github.com/gardener/gardener/tree/master/extensions

> 

Reviewer 3: BTW, Apple engineers have made it clear that they have a very similar use case for KubeVirt (deploying lightweight k8s clusters on top of it), which they try to open-source. We may want to mention their discussion of [cluster-api-provider-kubevirt plans](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Gmc7LyCIL_148a9Tft7pdhdee0NBHdOfHS1SAF0duI4/edit#bookmark=id.7qrjiv2e5ho0) in [SIG Cluster Lifecycle](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3XwXbrM2Kxg)

> 

Author: @dankenigsberg  Indeed.  Approval is being worked on through the OSPO / CNCF interface.  We have to tread carefully on the topic.

> 

Author: @peterclauterbach Thanks for that link.  Do you have a contact at Gardener whom we can reach out to for corp approval?  Can we just add them since KubeVirt is listed on their public repo.

> 

Author: Per OSPO KubeVirt has enough documented users to continue with the process.  Apple has a seperate issue to obtain permission. ([issue](https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt.github.io/issues/782)).  Gardener has a seperate issue to obtain permission. ([issue](https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt.github.io/issues/793)).  There are others  that I just found out about also.  I will reach out to them all individually as well.

I'm resolving this conversation.

The project utilizes Google Groups as a mailing list where use, support, proposal topics are discussed.

The project holds a video conference every week via a Zoom account provided by the CNCF.  General topics, support and bug triage are conducted in this meeting.  The project also conducts a weekly meeting based on the topic of performance and scale.  Both meetings are recorded and posted to the project YouTube channel.  Meeting notes are emailed to the general mailing list.

The project uses two channels on the CNCF/Kubernetes Slack server.  #virtualization is used to handle general use and support topics.  #kubevirt-dev is used for developer oriented communication.

KubeVirt utilizes email, website blog and Twitter for important announcements such as version releases.

KubeVirt advertises communications channels via https://kubevirt.io/community as well as project README (https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt/blob/master/README.md).

#### End Users

> ### CNCF Sponsored Security Audit

Reviewer 4: This actually happens AFTER we get to incubating.  It's in the DD because the DD is supposed to stay with us through Graduation.

## What is KubeVirt: Refresh
KubeVirt technology addresses the needs of development teams that have adopted or want to adopt Kubernetes but possess existing Virtual Machine-based workloads that cannot be easily containerized. More specifically, the technology provides a unified development platform where developers can build, modify, and deploy applications residing in both Application Containers as well as Virtual Machines in a common, shared environment.

Benefits are broad and significant. Teams with a reliance on existing virtual machine-based workloads are empowered to rapidly containerize applications. With virtualized workloads placed directly in development workflows, teams can decompose them over time while still leveraging remaining virtualized components as is comfortably desired.

## Statement on alignment with the CNCF mission:

## Project progress since sandbox

## Metrics

### Mailing list
KubeVirt currently (2021/06/01) has 436 subscribers.  The mailing list typically get 0-5 new threads per day.

### GitHub
* 171 official members in the organization
* About 50 contributors measured by multiple L or greater sized contributions
* 96 watched tags
* 2562 stars

> * 615 forks

Reviewer 5: maybe we can get some stats pertaining to how many PRs are merged per week.

Author: How about commits per week?  GitHub doesn't give a good history for pull reqs.

### Slack
Slack channels typically get 0-5 new threads per day.

### Downloads

> ### Integrations

Reviewer 5: maybe add harvester here

The project utilizes Google Groups as a mailing list where use, support, proposal topics are discussed.

The project holds a video conference every week via a Zoom account provided by the CNCF.  General topics, support and bug triage are conducted in this meeting.  The project also conducts a weekly meeting based on the topic of performance and scale.  Both meetings are recorded and posted to the project YouTube channel.  Meeting notes are emailed to the general mailing list.

The project uses two channels on the CNCF/Kubernetes Slack server.  #virtualization is used to handle general use and support topics.  #kubevirt-dev is used for developer oriented communication.

KubeVirt utilizes email, website blog and Twitter for important announcements such as version releases.

KubeVirt advertises communications channels via https://kubevirt.io/community as well as project README (https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt/blob/master/README.md).

#### End Users

> * NVIDIA ... NVIDIA's latest computing platform is built on open-source projects like Kubernetes and KubeVirt to power products like GeForce NOW with more to come.

Reviewer 5: https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt/blob/main/ADOPTERS.md

we have a lot of references to pick from now

*
*
*

### CNCF Sponsored Security Audit

## Features & Roadmap

> ### Roadmap at Sandbox

Reviewer 5: we can add

[DONE] Dedicated prow deployment for CI functional tests and automation
[DONE] Dynamic SSH Key Injection
[DONE] Multus support for multiple network interfaces attached to Virtual Machines

* [DONE] GA v1 API for core KubeVirt APIs
 * API v1 features need to rely on GA’ed Kubernetes entities, fully fledged (incl e.g. explain, validation)
 * An OpenAPI definition as the only source of truth for KubeVirt’s API
 * https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt/pull/3349

> * [DONE] Stabilize or replace bridge network binding

Reviewer 5: I'd drop the `or replace` verbage here.

> * [DONE] Disk hot add

Reviewer 5: Disk hotplug is the official name of the feature.

* [DONE] IPv6 support
* [DONE] Device passthrough support
* [DONE] Memory metrics gathering support
* [DONE] Affinity / Anti-Affinity rules
* [DONE] Live-Migration support
* [DONE] Offline disk snapshots
* [DONE] SRIOV support

> ### Future Roadmap

Reviewer 5: things we could add

* SSH proxy ingress support

> ### Future Roadmap

Reviewer 5: Things we can add

[WIP] Online Snapshots
[WIP] Numa Topology Support

* [WIP] Non-root VMI Pods

> * [WIP] Persistent containerDisk volumes

Reviewer 5: i'd remove this one at this point. the future here is too uncertain

* [WIP] Establish predictable community release and support patterns
* [WIP] Define a deprecation policy
* [WIP] Review and Revise User Guide

> * [WIP] Virt-launcher live updates

Reviewer 5: this can be moved to done.  We have zero downtime updates for control plane and workloads

* [WIP] Templating mechanism for VMs
* [WIP] Monitoring and metrics standardization

> * [WIP] CPU pinning support

Reviewer 5: We have pinning now. Numa topology support is somethign we're still workign on though that's similar

> * [WIP] Macvtap support

Reviewer 5: What is the macvtap support feature? do we have more info here. I'm not sure what this refers to.

Author: I think I found it in another roadmap doc.  We can drop it.

 * An OpenAPI definition as the only source of truth for KubeVirt’s API
 * https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt/pull/3349
* [DONE] Stabilize or replace bridge network binding
* [DONE] Disk hot add
* [DONE] IPv6 support
* [DONE] Device passthrough support

> * [DONE] Memory ballooning support

Reviewer 6: We support the device for gathering memory statistics from the guest, but we don't support actual ballooning.
